TENABLE NETWORK SECURITY, INC.
REGISTERED PLUGIN FEED
SUBSCRIPTION LICENSE AGREEMENT

This is a legally binding agreement (the 'Agreement') between you
and Tenable Network Security, Inc. ('Tenable'), with its
principal place of business at 8830 Stanford Blvd., Suite 312,
Columbia, MD 21045.  This Agreement sets forth the terms and
conditions under which Tenable grants you the right to download
vulnerability detection programs developed by Tenable or its
licensors (the 'Plugins') through Tenable's online Registered
Plugin Feed service at www.nessus.org or a related website (the
'Registered Plugin Feed') and use the Plugins only in conjunction
with one or more Nessus or NeWT vulnerability scanner programs
obtained directly from www.nessus.org or www.tenablesecurity.com.

BY DOWNLOADING OR USING ANY PLUGINS, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND
UNDERSTAND ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND
THAT YOU ASSENT TO AND AGREE TO BE LEGALLY BOUND BY THIS
AGREEMENT.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH ANY OF THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY NOT DOWNLOAD OR USE ANY
PLUGINS.

This Agreement permits you to use the Plugins to detect
vulnerabilities only on your system or network. If you intend to
use the Plugins to detect vulnerabilities on the systems or
networks belonging to third parties (eg: if you are a consultant
or a Managed Security Services Provider) then click here for the
consultants and MSSPs license agreement.
 
Registration.  You agree to use the Plugins only in conjunction
with Nessus or NeWT vulnerability scanner programs obtained
directly from www.nessus.org or www.tenablesecurity.com and
registered with Tenable ('Registered Scanners').

Grant of License.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, Tenable grants to you a non-exclusive,
non-transferable license (the 'License') (i) to download the
Plugins made available to you through the Registered Plugin Feed
during the term of this Agreement and (ii) to use the Plugins in
conjunction with Registered Scanners obtained directly from
www.nessus.org or www.tenablesecurity.com to detect
vulnerabilities only on your system or network or on the system
or network. You may only use the Plugins in conjunction with the
number of Registered Scanners for which you have obtained
directly from www.nessus.org or www.tenablesecurity.com.  Any
rights in the Plugins not expressly granted in this Agreement are
reserved by Tenable. The Registered Plugin Feed includes
vulnerability detection programs not developed by Tenable or its
licensors, which are licensed to you under the General Public
License (the 'GPL Plugins').  The terms and conditions of this
Agreement do not apply to the GPL Plugins.

Intellectual Property.  This Agreement does not transfer to you
any title or any ownership right or interest in the Plugins.  You
acknowledge that the Plugins are owned by Tenable or its
licensors and that the Plugins contain, embody or are based on
patented or patentable inventions, copyrights and other
intellectual property rights owned by Tenable or its licensors.
Tenable may pursue all legal remedies if you use the Plugins in
violation of this Agreement.  You acknowledge that if you use the
Plugins in violation of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, by copying, distributing or making derivatives of the
Plugins), you may be subject to CIVIL AND CRIMINAL FINES AND
PENALTIES under all applicable laws, including, without
limitation, 17 U.S.C. ¤ 506 and 18 U.S.C. ¤ 2319.

No Reverse Engineering; Other Restrictions.  You shall not,
directly or indirectly:  (i) sell, lease, rent, license,
sublicense, distribute, redistribute or transfer any Plugins or
any of your rights under this Agreement; (ii) modify, translate,
reverse engineer (except to the limited extent permitted by law),
decompile, disassemble or create derivative works based on any
Plugins; (iii) use any Plugins other than in conjunction with
Registered Nessus or NeWT Scanners obtained directly from
www.nessus.org or www.tenablesecurity.com to detect
vulnerabilities on your own system or network or on the system or
network; or (iv) remove, alter or obscure any proprietary notice,
labels or marks on any Plugins.  You are responsible for all use
of the Plugins downloaded under this Agreement and for compliance
with this Agreement by any user of the Plugins.

No Warranty.  THE PLUGINS ARE PROVIDED 'AS IS' AND WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, QUIET ENJOYMENT AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  TENABLE MAKES NO WARRANTY THAT ANY PLUGINS
WILL OPERATE ERROR-FREE, FREE OF ANY SECURITY DEFECTS OR IN AN
UNINTERRUPTED MANNER OR THAT THE PLUGINS WILL DETECT ALL
VULNERABILITIES OR ANY PARTICULAR VULNERABILITY.  TENABLE MAKES
NO WARRANTY THAT TENABLE WILL PROVIDE YOU WITH THE MOST RECENTLY
DEVELOPED OR DISTRIBUTED PLUGINS.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PLUGINS IS WITH YOU.

Limitation of Liability.  NEITHER TENABLE NOR ITS LICENSORS SHALL
BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE
ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO YOUR USE OF, OR YOUR INABILITY TO USE,
THE PLUGINS OR OTHERWISE ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO THIS
AGREEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL TENABLE OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE
TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE OR OTHER DAMAGES ARISING FROM OR
RELATED TO YOUR USE OF, OR YOUR INABILITY TO USE, THE PLUGINS OR
OTHERWISE ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING
LOST PROFITS, LOST DATA, INTERRUPTION OR LOSS OR BUSINESS OR THE
COST OF PROCURING SUBSTITUTE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES, EVEN IF
TENABLE OR ITS LICENSORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE
OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY OF ANY KIND.

THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY SHALL APPLY TO ALL CAUSES
OF ACTION UNDER ALL LEGAL THEORIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, THEORIES OF CONTRACT, WARRANTY, STRICT LIABILITY,
MISREPRESENTATION, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORT.  YOU ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY ARE MATERIAL TERMS OF
THIS AGREEMENT AND THAT TENABLE WOULD NOT HAVE ENTERED INTO THIS
AGREEMENT WITHOUT THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY.

Term; Termination.  The term of this Agreement commences upon
your assent to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and
ends upon termination.  Tenable may terminate this Agreement and
your right to download Plugins immediately if Tenable determines,
at its sole discretion, that you have breached this Agreement.

Legal Compliance; Restricted Rights.  The Plugins are provided
solely for lawful purposes and use.  You shall be solely
responsible for, and agree to comply with, all laws, statutes,
ordinances, regulations, rules and other government authority
('Laws') applicable to the use of the Plugins.  Without limiting
the foregoing, you agree to comply with all U.S. export Laws and
applicable export Laws of your locality (if you are not in the
United States), and you further agree not to export any Plugins
without first obtaining all required authorizations or licenses.
The Plugins are provided subject to this standard commercial
agreement and qualify as commercial computer software within the
meaning of the applicable government acquisition Laws.  The terms
and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to your use and
disclosure of the Plugins, and shall supersede any conflicting
contractual terms and conditions.  If this Agreement fails to
meet your minimum needs or is inconsistent in any respect with
government procurement Laws, you agree not to use the Plugins.
Plugins acquired for use by the United States government are
provided with only 'LIMITED RIGHTS' and 'RESTRICTED RIGHTS' as
defined in FAR 52.227-14 if the commercial terms are deemed not
to apply.

Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of Maryland, U.S.A.,
without regard to any conflicts-of-law rules.  You irrevocably
submit and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue
in, the federal and state courts located in or serving Howard
County, Maryland, U.S.A. and waive any right you may have to
object to such jurisdiction or venue or to seek any change of
jurisdiction or venue.  Section headings are for convenience only
and shall not be considered in the interpretation of this
Agreement.

Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement is determined
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable or
illegal for any reason, such provision shall be deemed to be
modified so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent
permissible under applicable law, and the remainder of this
Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

No Waiver.  The failure of Tenable to exercise any right granted
in this Agreement, or to require the performance of any provision
of this Agreement, or the waiver by Tenable of any breach of this
Agreement, shall not prevent the subsequent exercise or
enforcement of such provision or be deemed a waiver of any
subsequent breach of the same provision or any other provision of
this Agreement.

Assignment.  You may not assign or otherwise transfer this
Agreement or any right granted to you by this Agreement, whether
by operation of law, change of control or otherwise, without
Tenable's prior written consent.  Any purported assignment or
transfer in violation of the foregoing shall be null and void and
of no effect.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
Tenable's successors and assigns.

Entire Agreement; Amendment.  This Agreement sets forth the
entire agreement and understanding between Tenable and you with
respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.  This Agreement
merges all previous discussions and negotiations between Tenable
and you and supersede and replaces any other agreement that may
have existed between Tenable and you with respect to the subject
matter of this Agreement.  Any modification or amendment of any
provision of this Agreement shall be in a writing signed by a
duly authorized representative of Tenable and you.




Tenable Network Security, Inc.
Registered Plugin Feed Subscription License Agreement v3 2.11.05
